In this lab session, I will discuss how to create your own VPC Virtual Private Cloud, which is a
prerequisite of Amazon ECS.
So when you create the Amazon ECS cluster at that time, it will ask you an option to create a new VPC.
If you are already having a VPC, you can choose your own VPC.
So first we'll understand how to create a VPC and then I will move towards the Amazon ECS.
So I have given all the details.
Here we have the VPC.
You can choose the same CIDR block in your lab session as well.
I'm going to attach the same PPT with the course module for your reference, so let's do it practically.
So I'm on this ECS click on cluster and create cluster.
Here we have 3 options.
The first one is the networking.
Only here the VPC is optional.
But suppose if you are going with this EC2 Linux + networking and click next and here you have
to provide all the details.
Scroll down in the networking section.
Here we have the VPC and you can see it is asking you to create a new VPC.
So first I will show you how to create the VPC.
So just go to the VPC service.
And your VPC.
As of now, you can see I have only one VPC.
This is the default VPC.
And you can see I'm on this reason Asia Pacific Mumbai.
And in this reason we have 3 availability zones.
So let me create a VPC here.
We have the new way for the creation of VPC.
We have 2 options VPC only and VPC more.
So let me go with that second option.
So first of all, you have to provide the name ECS- Project and this is the CIDR block.
I'm okay with that.
And let me scroll down IP version 6 if you want, you can select this one as well, tenancy default.
And here you can see what are the changes I'm doing on the left hand side?
It is reflecting in a graphical way.
So this is the best way you can understand the VPC.
This is my VPC here we have 4 subnets, so let me choose the subnets as well.
So first of all, you have to choose the availability zone.
So in Mumbai reason we have 3 availability zones, but I want only 2 availability zone for this
VPC.
So select on this 2.
You can also customize what all the availability zones you want.
So I'm okay with that and number of public subnets I want 2 public subnets and 2 private subnets
and you can also customize the subnet CIDR block.
So this is the public subnet.
I'm okay with that.
Let me cross-check with this diagram 10.0.
This one.
And here we have 24.
This is my.
30.
And this is 24.
This is 20, I believe.
This is 30.
24.
And this is 40.0/24.
Perfect.
And everything seems fine okay.
Now scroll down.
We have an option for the net gateway.
So basically this net gateway is to provide the Internet connectivity to the private subnet.
Suppose if you want to execute a container and important container or we can say a production container
in a some secure environment.
Then you can choose the net gateway so that you can execute your container in the private subnet, so
you can choose one subnet.
But it would be the chargeable basis and this is for IPv6 and I'm going with the none scroll down
and let me create the VPC so you can see my VPC started creating.
It won't take much time coming back to my PPT.
So once you create the VPC, one Internet gateway will be created automatically, the route tables will
be created, it will associate it with the public subnet to the main route table.
So if you have chosen the net gateway, so it will associate the private route to the main route table.
And you also need to create one security group as well.
And from there you have to allow these services, so it is being created.
So let me go to this EC2.
This is my EC2 dashboard.
And here we have this security group.
Let me scroll down.
Create security group and name.
You can give any name.
I'm choosing ECS project.
Security group.
In the description, I'm giving the same VPC.
So my VPC, you can see that this VPC has been created.
So I want this security group should be the part of this VPC.
So I have chosen this VPC, which I have created just now.
And inbound rules, I'm going to add few rules here.
SSH, I want to allow for everyone and for web.
Traffic.
I want this http and I want to allow from anywhere.
Let me take this https as well.
So as of now, I'm taking only these services and allowing from the inbound rules and let me save and
come out.
So this will create my security group.
So this security group has been created and also aligned with my this VPC.
So let's see my this VPC has been created or not.
So again, coming back to my this VPC dashboard and let's see how many VPCs are showing.
Now you can see we have 2 VPC's it is showing here.
This is the VPC, which I have created.
This is the VPC ID.
And here we have all the details.
And if will click on the subnets, it is started showing 4 new subnets 1, 2, 3, 4 and
the subnets started with ECS.
So it means these subnets belongs to your VPC, which you have created.
So 2 subnets that belong to public and 2 subnets belong to private.
And let's see the NAT gateway.
It has created one NAT gateway as well, this one, and we have not selected this one.
So it has not created the egress.
So here you can see it has created one route table as well and which is associated with the 2 subnets.
So these 2 subnets basically belongs to your.
Let me show the association subnets.
Here, you can see.
So these subnets belong to the public.
So that's all for this lecture.
In the next lecture, I'm going to create my Amazon ECS cluster.